This lesson we're going to continue to build out our party list.
And previously we left off the last lesson where we're able to add users into our list but we don't
have are at least initially being displayed.
So we actually don't know who is in that list right off the bat.
So let's add in some colors and we're also going to add in creating an active one so the active ones
are going to be the ones that we've already checked off.
So let's set up.
We know that we set up the class toggle so they're all going to be holding within that class toggle.
So it's Add in some padding and padding of 10 picks.
Let's do a background color.
So the background color.
So this is going to be for the ones that are not active maybe do Alice blue.
And this is also optional so whatever color you pick is perfect.
I want to make this big so one point three.
Let's do margin.
And so we got a little bit of spacing between the different cells and I'm running through this really
quickly because I don't spend a whole lot of time on the CSX.
So again I want to keep the focus of the Course to be on Javascript.
So that's why a lot of this stuff how it looks is this is really optional.
So let's set that up as white.
And this is just so that I can distinguish.
So whenever I do add in a value I can really easily see it there.
So the objective from the last lesson was to build out our list and we know we've got this function
build list so let's add an event listener so we can add it in here and we'll just do window we'll do
this one the window onload and whenever the window loads and we'll build list.
So launch build list function.
So over here is the build list function.
So the first things that we know is that we need to actually.
So we've loaded in the party values there and we can also set up a blank Hooray for a party and then
we could parson load that data in if we wanted to as well.
So maybe that would probably be a better way to do that where now it's a set up party to load in that.
So whenever the window is ready and it's loading that we know we can add value in there.
So next that we want to do is we want to loop through Party.
So as we've seen in the earlier lessons there's a number of ways to do the loop.
I'm going to do a standard for loop and if you did it within another loop and that's working then that's
fine as well.
And as we've seen with javascript there's a number of ways to do things and sometimes something is suited
better suited than others.
The reason that I wanted to do the for loop is that I believe we probably need to get the ID.
And this is probably the easiest way to grab the ID when we're looping through.
So lastly let's also add in a class so this will just call C and by default we're just not we're not
going to pass any values into it over here so just leave it blank and I'll show you what I want to do
with this.
So as we loop through I want to add in a value for the active users so we're looping through and I want
to also keep that same type of format that we have here.
So let me grab a message and we do have two options.
So we know that this is where we need a condition.
So we need to check to make sure as we're looping through Party sort of the value of party X is we're
going to check to see the status and if the status is true then we know that we're going to pass on
a message where it's going to be true.
And if the status otherwise we're going to pass in the message where it's false.
So this is OK for false and for true.
Let's set a check mark there and we're also going to pass in the class active
and now let's go down to here and let's add in those classes.
So let's try this so let's refresh the page and say.
We do have a problem there because we don't have a g value.
So this is the party status value.
So party status.
So we know that ads were looping through here that it's not party status.
It's going to be the name and this this variable is the same.
So let's create a variable to hold it.
So basically this is the person or the message whatever we want to call it.
So as we're building that vote I'm going to just take those values.
They're And this actually isn't going to be party length either.
So let's let's leave a space there for that one.
And the party length is going to be the value of x.
So this is basically giving us the index of value.
So person and this is what we're just going to pass through because this message is actually going to
be the same thing.
So it's just the number of it's the name of the person.
So let's update this.
It's inside value but it's party X and that's a name.
And then we're adding in how many additional people so this is the guests.
So party guests and let's close that off.
So let's try that again.
So now when we are refreshed so we're getting that data that's loading again from Jason Jason and I
promise you in upcoming lessons we are going to transform this into an actual Jaison file and make use
of that within our application.
So for now let's just keep it as this.
And there we go.
So we've got our list and whenever we add people to the list we can add people down at the bottom.
And we can continuously add people into the list.
So the next part is to actually make these clickable.
So this is going to be another challenge that in order to make these clickable.
Now of course we know that we could loop through all of the toggles But then we're adding you toggles
and it can get quite complex.
So probably one of the easiest ways to do is to add an event listener to that entire element output.
So this entire elements and we know that we've got all of these values contained within here and we
know that we have output already created.
So let's go ahead and add an event listener to that entire element and then it doesn't actually matter
as we add new values because the listeners on the entire output area.
So let's do that.
So document and we do have output I believe we already have put set here.
So this is going to be a little bit easier where we can just add in the listener to hear.
So as a listener and the listener is going to be click and we'll just do the function within here as
well.
PONSON the event object.
And so now we're all ready to go.
So let's grab a value
and I'm going to set a default holder here for it.
I call it E-L and whenever we click that we're going to set the L is equal to event target or target
because we're remember here we're passing through a event as valuable he lets console log whatever the
value of L is.
So refresh so we click it we can see we get this data information here so we're getting that entire
element when we click it.
And this is actually going to be true even if we add new values.
So there we've got the data.
We've got the person data person so we can grab that information directly from our element.
So let's let's add in the next part where we're going to pick up the value we're going to update it
and we're going to
toggle the class.
So going back into the earlier lessons when we looked at the dorm How would you toggle the class.
How would you add and remove a class depending on if it's got gotten clicked and we know that we can
grab that element because it's the target and we get that element.
So we don't get output we don't get the whole output we get the element that actually triggered it.
So that's the really nice thing about this format.
So going back into what we saw earlier we can do a class list and we can simply toggle the value and
that basically remove set or adds in a class.
So let's get active.
And this is a really easy way to set this type of thing so basically we click it and we can update the
colors.
So that was the first thing that we need to do.
And the other thing we need to do and this one is a little bit more difficult is we need to change these
Xs to check BARCS because it's not exactly formatting and that you could as well do these values as
classes.
So if you wanted to you could already set that up in classes.
But we've gone this far and we've set them up as elements.
So we need to identify the children of this one and we did place them all in as span's.
So we need to see whatever that inner H-2 himself value is.
And we need to toggle it and we can achieve this actually with a tear unary operator.
So let's set that up.
So E-L and we know that this is children so we know that each element has children and it's got an h
t m-L.
So that first child is going to be the only child that we see in there.
The only element that's in there is going to be the spam.
There are always first.
So it's the first child there.
So by default it's just the way that we've set up the order that we can identify it this way.
So let's grab that first child and we're going to set that each to m-L.
And this is where the territory operator comes in.
So we need to do a check of that current element that we're looking for.
So that inner h to M L and we're checking to see if it's actually equal to a checkmark.
And if it is true.
So if this is true that we know we need to flip it into an X and if it's not true.
So just to the alternative that we know that if it's an X or if it's not if it's not x then we know
we need to turn it into a checkmark.
So let's do that.
So let's try this one.
No.
So let's refresh.
And so now we've got the checkmark in the x.
So everything is working.
So there's actually one other thing that we need to flip and we can do this within the territory operator
as well.
So this is actually within the array because our party array is not updating yet.
So even though we've been clicking it it's not updating the status isn't updating.
And remember we can grab that information via dataset.
So if we wanted to we could do variable d s.
So this is for the data set we can grab L and grab data set.
So this grabs all of the dataset information of that element and we know that we're passing through
the values here as data ID data person and so on.
So we can pick up that information within the data set so what I want you to do now is create a terrine
every operator just like we did over here but it's actually going to flip the value within the party
array.
So go ahead and try that out and I'll show you the solution.
So you had an opportunity to try that one out.
And what we need to do.
We needed to toggle sort of toggling the classes where toggling the checkmarks and this access.
This is a great exercise and terrine area operators as well toggling that we're flipping them back and
forth.
So what we need to do is we need to check the dataset and we know that we can do D.S..
So this is going to contain the data set dataset.
ID is going to have that ID value of it
and can get rid of this stuff because we're actually looking at the party.
So D.S. ID and it's on each to.
Its status.
So this is how we can identify the status and lets check to see if the status is true and if its true.
So we don't need any of this because it's going to simply check to see if it's true and if it is true
then we're flipping it to false
because we're toggling it.
And if it's false then we're flipping it to true.
So let's try that.
And also let's put party into there.
So let's try this.
So refresh and toggle.
So hopefully when we go down here we see it's true.
When I click it again we go down and we see that it's false.
So if you didn't have an opportunity to try this and it's a great practice exercise for ternary operators
and toggling values.
So we've got a number of things we're toggling here as they get clicked and this can be used in a number
of different ways.
So go ahead and try that out and in their next lesson.
So the last thing that we need to do.
So this part is working and we can toggle this one.
And if we can add in guests so it doesn't actually matter how many elements we have there they're all
going to have that shared functionality.
So everything is targetable and this is actually going to be great for building out our party list.
So the next thing that I want to do is one last thing and the party list going back a few lessons.
Let's start to local storage.
So this time we need to set the item and we need to string a fire do that Chase string ify.
And then if that is already set then instead of loading the value from the Jasen data file we can adding
in party from the data file wherever we do that when we're doing the build list.
So over here.
So instead of getting it from the data file Let's get it from the local storage.
So go ahead and add that into the application and I'll show you the solution coming up on the next lesson.